Token Trust and Traceability, Third Meeting
===
https://indico.cern.ch/event/1340775/
Attending: Matt, Linda, Baptiste, DavidC
Apologies: DaveK, Maarten, TomD

Thanks to Baptiste for pointing out that I had misnamed the meeting in indico.

Actions from Previous Meeting
=
-Advertisement Slide was produced, presented at GDB, WLCG Ops Coord
    -"No bites"
-Exploring a regular monthly time slot (nowish)


General Business
==

Mischa's email to the list after the second meeting
-positive there's no technical blockers to traceability.
-notes the upcoming AARC-TREE project.

SKA - still need to approach (I got pointed to another SKA member)

Note the "GUT" (Grand Unified Token) work - this could make life easier down the line.
-Matt joined the new list.

First "Request for Docs"
==
At RAL they're looking at deploying token support for their XRootD gateways, and in a UK meeting put a request for token traceability documentation for XRootD servers - a "How to" of some sort.
This feels like a good start to producing something tangible.

--general approval that this seems like a good first attempt.

Discussion
==

DavidC mentions conversations on this at TechEx, regarding sharing token information - good work planned in this area. Sven ran the session

Google Doc notes from this session:

- https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UjtyYuz5eAwrR9ChLqMcxATKf93evqBUSY7BDb3sAjI/edit


AOB/Actions
==
Action on Matt to have a go at the XRootD traceability "docs", with the aim to present something at the next TTT meeting

Next meeting would be the afternoon of the 23rd of November if we keep targetting the PM of the 4th Thursday of a month.
@anyone reading the minutes - please object at Matt if this is a problem 

Quick meeting this time.
