TTT October 2024
===
29/10/24

Attending: Matt, Luna, Linda, Marcus, Dave D, Dimitrios, Maarten, Mischa, Petr, Hannah
Apologies:

Actions: Write up CHEP (deadline end of Jan so no hurry, yet)

# "Very long lived" Token Discussion

* **Example 1: FTS long lived, "per file" tokens.**
Where each file transfer is assigned a narrowly scoped, long lived token.
* **Example 2: Job output write token use case.**
Inspired by the above, a job is submitted with a narrowly scoped write token for the output (as information of the output is known ahead of time). This was a coffee discussion with Mattias W concerning jobs submitted via ARC Control Tower.

Any more examples? I've not managed to dig out the latest token plan within PanDA/CRAB.

ML - multiple day tokens are currently being used for jobs. Idea was to survive a weekend outage, and be used for multiple jobs in a row.
Less of a use case if the IAM service becomes highly available.

operational incidents/infrastructure capacity factors.

Also to take into account delegation? No delegation in many workflows (unlike proxies).

Collect example use cases for reasonable lifetimes for tokens.

JCL - it would be good to collect actual values for wait times/ time to execute.

MS - Is availability the only issue? Could look at refreshes?
Discussion, which reminded us that we need to be clear what workflow we're discussing.

MS - mentions mytoken.
ML - others might look for a similar solution.

The oauth model is broken by taking an account days long downtimes of the issuer.
ML - in theory we never had the gurantee of revocability with proxies.
Can take into account the protection on the FTS - it's not a random machine.

Need to take into account this. Move towards a workable model.
JCL - very difficult to control after we've given out looser permissions.

Marcus - is it the sites that need to be convinced?
ML - it's all players, no one wants a security problem.

MS/ML - could we use a different OAuth flow, to pin the flow to be usable by the FTS.
Some discussion of FTS flow and tokens. There the token is transferred to the push/pull end of the transfer. pull is safer, as push requires more permissions.
Token in theory could be intercepted, but this is mostly a risk if the host is already compromised...

JCL/ML - long lived refresh token, then could get away with only a few hours. This is the general purpose model that FTS will keep supporting.
Scalability lessons were learned during DC24, and the current method used by atlas.

CMS continued with something close to the original model, handing out tokens per dataset. "Just in time" refresh model. So far seems to be working after a few weeks in production.
"Multiple islands of stability" within the token space.
*(after meeting link to numbers from fts chep presentations here).*
ATLAS: up to 3.0 M seen recently - [Tom's talk](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1338689/contributions/6010716/)
CMS: up to 700 k seen recently - [Brian's talk](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1338689/contributions/6011018/)

Compromise per workflow. We're still gaining experience.
MS - compromise can include mitigations. if you have ways to tell who users a token, or restrict to IP space, or other ideas.
If we have these in place we can have a lifetime can be longer. We might come up with possibilities.

Today is not the final set of possibilties. But we do quite a good job today.

Refresh token itself is useless for an attacker. Refresh tokens can be revoked.

MS - degrading security due to possibly wrong design choices. This shouldn't be the case.
Marcus - the recommendations from the AARC document (G081) would be watered down by WLCG's actions.
Slippery slope again.
ML - want other communities to be able to copy us without regrets.

Petr - On WN tokens, WNs not a trust environment.
ML - ALICE equip token that allows pull jobs from central queue, long lived.

Petr - should we include long lived access token in our (WLCG) profile, or be like CMS and have their own tokens.

ML - CMS relies on htcondor to keep these connections for this, and generate tokens just in time.

Petr - makes a point about groups inventing their own tokens.

ML - good point.

SCL - dependent on resources.

Pulling jobs also pulls credentials.
Why not a pull then a push?

Some discussion on how CMS do this (job specific indentifier that is essentially a long hash).

Other experiments aren't likely to switch to this kind of machinery just for the reason of reducing the long lived tokens.

Should the WLCG profile a long lived access token scope?
-Seems sensible, could have some kind of link it in. Or could have 
This is how it's done for ALICE.

Petr asked to explore this with the PanDA people, to see if this works.

This is a much better then everyone inventing their own solution.

Good things to include in the token:
- audience? ALICE done in in the subject. But an identifier for the pilot and an identifier for the job.
- This could be problematic for multiple jobs, but these can be dynamically created (as with ALICE, put it in the subject, or scope).
Petr - these kind of flexible scopes can be tricky to use.

Way of equipping tokens with just enough to succeed. 

MS- recommends writing a document to hammer this out.
ML - made note to dig up the CHEP paper where ALICE described this.

Could this be applied to FTS?

DC - what is riskier, a shorter lived token that can delete everything, or a long lived token that can delete one file?

CMS compared to ATLAS.

Slippery slope mentioned again.

(WLCG profile has a 6 hour on resource provider in it, but ignored in most places - validation of token included validation of maximum lifetime)

PV - we're screwed anyway if iam down?
HS - I don't think we should be totally up all the time
PV - in real world 15 minute lifetime.
ML - 2 hours is a ball park value. Should be rare (now HA), second data centre. Must make sure this isn't a disaster. Some things will just be retried.
PV - trying to understand if we should design system to this limitation of issuer being down?
ML - some of this is true, we can't gurantee 100% (PV accepts).

MD- note that a lot of the token refresh points happen at "critical" points, like the end of a job.
ML - reason for giving job long lived token.

In the end can only enforce this by policy.


**Unordered talking points (not really needed in the end):** 
- Potential for a "slippery slope" w.r.t. scopes, audiences. (fallacy?)
- How narrow a scope is feasible? (especially for job outputs, taking into account retries or failovers)?
- Would a job retaining an equivilently long lived refresh token be any better?
- How long is very long? How long is too long? Where do you draw the line?
- Who do we need to add to these conversation? (I didn't have time to extend any invitations ahead of today).
- <marcus_advertisement> mytoken was developed for just that 
    - difference: get RT+AT on the time of MT creation + use RT to get fre AT on actual usage
    - pro: better RT protection (MT+RT are revocable)
    - con: additional infrastructure (but we're working on HA between KIT, NIKHEF, and more)
  </marcus_advertisement>
  - Vault (FNAL) set out to doing a similar thing, based on hashicorp vault.
- (some kind of token vault was mentioned in the original coffee discussion about ACT jobs, a hypothetical suggestion was packaging a vault solution with the CE). 

I feel our final advice will be something like:

*Any access token lifetime over $X hours should be carefully considered with minimised scope as concluded per the TTT Risk Assessment.
At no point should an access token be given a lifetime above $Y days.*

Personally, without any study, I feel that $X is 24 hours, and $Y is ~7 days - but these are numbers plucked from the ether. And the above statement perhaps doesn't encompass everything.

(marcus: ..and they are a lot larger than what was recommended in the past and is currently inside the G081 document: (Absolut max: $X ~10min, $Y=6h))


# Feedback from CHEP

[Tuesday Afternoon Token Session](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1338689/sessions/553987/#20241022)
Brian's talk had one of the best introductions to the topic of AAI and tokens I've seen.

One comment from our talk, intended in good faith, was that without any ability to enforce recommendations they might well be ignored.
Whilst it would never be our responsibility to act as an enforcer, the intention is for our policies to be considered by those who can.



[FTS Token Talk](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1338689/contributions/6010768/attachments/2951726/5188844/CHEP_2024_FTS3_Tokens.pdf) (that was in another room in parallel)

# After meeting email from Maarten:
the best reference about ALICE job tokens still
seems to be in the proceedings from CHEP 2018:

https://www.epj-conferences.org/articles/epjconf/pdf/2019/19/epjconf_chep2018_03042.pdf 

My point was about the format of the subject DN
of the (X509!) credential given to a payload task,
as shown in section 2 on page 2:

OU="queueid=1038905674/resubmission=3/user=mmmartin", 
OU=jobagent, CN=jobagent, CN=Jobs, O=AliEn, C=ch

It might inspire us for extending the WLCG profile
to the benefit of other job management systems...


# AOB, Next meeting
Next meeting Tuesday 26th of November.

Note the OTF on the 11th.
AARC lifetime discussion on Thursday.
GUT meeting next week.

Meeting chat:
14:42:10 From Hannah Short To Everyone:
	Sorry I could only join now
14:50:11 From Petr Vokac To Everyone:
	How to declare invalid refresh token in IAM?
14:50:20 From Petr Vokac To Everyone:
	I can only destroy whole client...
14:52:42 From Mischa Sallé To Everyone:
	This would need checking with the IAM developers, I think it's a requirement from the specs
15:00:21 From Linda Cornwall - STFC UKRI To Everyone:
	I need to leave I have another meeting. Bye
15:01:49 From Dimitrios Christidis To Everyone:
	By the way: the two weeks were put initially to avoid it being a factor during the test. It has since been reduced to 7 days and will continue to be reduced. Of course, one could argue that 2 days is still very long.
15:08:50 From Petr Vokac To Everyone:
	Should we ask IAM developers to add features that are available in MyToken (e.g. client IP address)?
15:09:34 From Maarten Litmaath To Everyone:
	To be discussed...
