===
TTT Meeting 7, 28th May 2024
===
https://indico.cern.ch/event/1417193/

Actions, Recap
---
Regular-ish time slot of the early PM on the 4th Tuesday of the month.

News from the WLCG workshop.


Organisation going forward, Possible use of GIT?
---

Discussion at WLCG Workshop suggested risk of "silos" forming in this area.

-- DC, partly due to historical regions ended up with siloing from the token transistion.\
-- talks from security matters from providers (rucio, fts, etc). Not getting a connection.\
--From an operational security perspective not enough training and skills in sec teams to make a full contribution to this work that is effective.\
--Danger of just trying to repeat what we did for x509\
--Have a couple of groups in this area (Authz, this one).\
--WLCG can defined stakeholders in this work area\
--definitely don't want another WG

--WLCG needs a concrete plan.\
--Lessons from the SOC WG.

ML - "Rediscovery" that there has never been a single entity forging a road map in this area.\
Hard lessons from DC, related to use.\
Different factors then with VOMS proxies. Repeatedly moving from using "the credential" to "which credential should we use". Need guidence in this area.\
If we can't reach a final form, what's a good intermediate step.\
AuthZ group has a profile, but was too optimistic. Need to factor in operational usability. Need to find a good middle ground with security.\
This WG could provide the glue between the other componants, and a single place to go to for documentation.\
--Will need at least one official policy document.\
--Would allow AuthZ/DOMA BDT group to concentrate on more technical matters.

DC@ML - bringing together a small group of stakeholders.\
ML - follow up from the DC aftermath. Token support in FTS/Rucio/DIRAC. Idea to have a few experts from these data management parties (met a few times already). Production managers running central services, so has more "freedom" then general job/user activities.  Plan is to get 99% of data transfers sorted out. Steer the tokens through lifetimes/scopes/audiences. Need to work without a "huge" infrastrcuture, as safe as possible. Risk is different to experiments as different usage patterns\
ML wearing different hats. Need to get going later this year. Nothing started yet, realistically ~September, with some scope for pre-meetings. \
Reluctant to open meetings to many more people (too many cooks). Will pull in more people when something implimentable/operable produced. Then others (like this WG) can "chew on it"\
DC- Another observation, had a chat with Luna. Need operational security presence at workshops.

WLCG works as an example to others. But first need to solve for ourselves.\
DC- Operational teams need to be aware of what's coming down the pipe. 

Sensible to include AuthZ/TTT chairs?\
Yes, eventually.


https://github.com/TTT-WG/TTT-WG\
- looks good so far.

Documentation: DTEAM "How to".
---
Only a little progress in this area:

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AQeB_t9RMMttSZDLA7H2uhQeXkss91wVxXZbzbM54kw/edit?usp=sharing 

Need to warn people more about the WLCG VO being a dev VO. Might be "shady" figures among the membership, supposed to just be on dev boxes. But a few sites have followed these docs too literally.

DTeam should be enabled, this is what the VO is for. A consistent set of instructions would be good.

--AuthZ group is more of a development club, so s/wlcg/dteam/g. Could add a dteam section to the existing documentation.

--Matt will see if he has access to the current docs, and if not can sort it out. Add dteam section to the existing docs.\
Then Matt will add to docs, in a dteam section.

--Re-emphasise WLCG is a catchall VO for anybody, with all the problems that entails

AOB:
---

EUGridPMA talk on Thursday:\
https://indico.nikhef.nl/event/5541/ \
Points:\
* We exist!
* Emphasise not solely a WLCG endeavour
* Working with AuthZ and GUT WGs
* Findings so far:
** Fundamental needs from transitioning from x509 to tokens not that different
** Importance of documentation for increasing trust.
** Well defined communication channels with IAM admins vital for incident response, e.g. "user banning".
** Many of the details that would affect traceability are touched on in other aspects of token implimentation (accounting, user mapping, etc)
* Still early days, welcome new collaborators 

* If we do things right we can improve the security of the infrastrcuture over the coming years, can finally close doors that were open for a long time.
* New risks, can be leaked easily thanks to their test based form (leaking through logs). Never would have had proxy dumps back in day. Some growing up to do on this. Need to be careful with logs, log redacting, correctness of using tokens in URLs. Technical discussion, don't log or redact the thing that shouldn't be leaked. 
** So we need to keep our eyes on the ball.

Matt will expand these into slides and share with the group.


Next meeting 2pm BST/3pm CEST on the 25th of June - this works for now so let's keep the slot.

Action on Matt to continue documentation work, and publish some of this on the AuthZ pages.

Chat:
---

14:10:40 From David Kelsey - STFC UKRI To Everyone:
	I agree with your points David
14:14:38 From David Kelsey - STFC UKRI To Everyone:
	And I agree with Maarten
14:14:48 From Linda Cornwall - STFC UKRI To Everyone:
	so do I
14:22:54 From David Kelsey - STFC UKRI To Everyone:
	Agree with not opening up membership but should at least the chairs of AuthZ and TTT be included to facilitate cross-communication.  In addition to you, Maarten?

14:28:20 From David Kelsey - STFC UKRI To Everyone:
	And you Maarten are clearly an essential person to link everything together
