Token Trust and Traceability 19/3/24
===
Attending: Matt, Linda, DaveK, Petr, Maarten\
Apologies:

Actions:\
-Forward Doodle poll for next meeting, highlighting that this is the “regular” slot.\
--Done, but not enough replies for quorom to be set. 3rd week still feels like a good target, early Tuesday/Wednesday PM or anytime on a Friday (although for selfish reasons I avoid regular Friday meetings).\
--If we get contributors from across the Atlantic we can revisit a later.\
--3rd Tuesday of the month clashes with MB, 4th Tuesday works?\
Will send another doodle poll after Easter.\

-Try to recruit others (greater priority)\
--Missed opportunity to represent at AuthZ/GUT meetings, will look to do that in the future.\
--Will sneak a mention into the OMB this week.\

Chicken and egg situation, due to zero experience.\
-Matt notes strong expieriecne from UK DIRAC\
-need to just get something started - copy and pasting into a google doc or similar.\
-then we can add polish.\
-ML noted that CERN pay for google docs these days, not likely to walk away from it any time soon.\
Institutional repositiories the best final place.\
Example of token timeline doc - eventually made into pdf and put on zenodo.\

-Prepare some proto-documentation for next meeting.\
--Outstanding, definitely need for instruction involving the dteam IAM server: https://dteam-auth.cern.ch/ \
Documention will aim to be an updated varient on this: https://wlcg-authz-wg.github.io/wlcg-authz-docs/token-based-authorization/ \
But are the oidc tools still what we should be targetting?

--oidc still the current way, but recall recent presentation on mytoken.\
Looking for an opportunity to document how to use mytoken for, in particular, dcache.\
Even what looks "super-easy" is worth presenting, as likely news to others.\
Advetise and link to this from our WG spaces.\
Petr had a chat with Brian, looking at just a simple implimenation in the client (for CMS).\
Most of oidc functionality not needed for a regular user. Desire for CMS to present this solution to the community, as it looks like a good solution for others.\
This uses vault, the osg keystore. 

ML: Still beneficial to have multiple strategies to see what becomes the best way.

The dteam IAM is still not well known about, at least in the UK.

Second piece of documentation would be "dissecting a token".

Petr: I have one topic related more to TTT - can we trust Maartens GGUS tickets which ask sites to trust new token issuer hostname? ;-)

(I just want to say that everybody should be very careful when somebody ask them to add new token issuer for a VO) 

-should teach people that this is a dangerous situation - we currently have VO-ID cards for voms.\
Need to raise awareness of this. GGUS should be a reasonably secure comms channel.

"A low hanging fruit" to bump trust up.

Next meeting: Third Tuesday is the 16th of April. 4th Tuesday would be the 23rd.\
Matt will send doodle poll after Easter.
