TTT Meeting 4/10/24
===
(postponed from 24/9)

Attending: Matt, ML, TD, DK, LC

Apologies: DC

CHEP submission
---
[CHEP submission](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1338689/contributions/6010998/)
[Draft of Talk](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/11tCaODjauThG4EWPg4y4kQ1XkK6XgMdSTB_PxlULE9o/edit?usp=sharing)
[Draft Rough Script](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eDpF20clCrXFGxU3v8ZYyrBm8UYvsqH9GHUyZr1OcPM/edit?usp=sharing)
(successfully mumbled to myself in my office in 14 minute and 28 seconds but this isn't a great indicator of how long it would take)

Any thoughts?

Thanks to those who have contributed comments.

I was a little stuck on slide 5. Mischa noted a lot of WLCG bias, which I think we'll need to "own".
--added a point on the "bias" in slide 2, although should that be omitted?
---this seemed sensible to keep in
--with help from HS re-worded the entire point on introspection
---that slide still needs work.

Produced a rough script (usually don't script my talks but timing is tight - 15+3), linked above.

Needs images which are my next task:
* "image" of JWT structure
* diagram of refresh token workflow
* probably a nicer "axes" diagram
* token introspection


And a lot of general "prettyfication" that doesn't involve pictures of the cat.


Feedback:
- A few too many walls of text, push slide 2 into two slides (same amount of content)
- more use of bold, font size or colours to emphasis points in text.
- Tom's talk is just before, so can perhaps skip over some technical details verbally (leave in the text as we want it to stand alone)
- discussion on the details of refresh tokens, not typically self-descriptive. Mainly arming Matt with stuff he should have remembered.
- Slide 4 (Differences proxies) - might be able to verbally skip most of this, needs a lot of the aforementioned reformatting.
- Slide 5 (Framing the Issues) has too much text, needs a heavy reformulation (no easy split like slide 2)
- On the Axes slide, pointed out that I had got my visualisation wrong and inverted the axis' description when I shouldn't have. Fixed in meeting.
- Add some text to the diagram to explain, close to the origin is good, and just how far away voms is.
- Slide 7 (Token Risk Analysis) okay, could do with some better formatting.
- Slide 9 and 10 (Traceability and Logging, Triggering etc..) to merge and rewrite (keeping 2 slides, but there's repetition.)
- Slide 11 (Trust and Education) largely okay, added to in meeting, usual formatting issues.
- Slide 12 (Summary) - always going to be a blocky list, so need to make good use of formatting to break up and emphasise the right points
- Slide 13 - okay
- Some rightful skeptism that this will fit into 15 minutes, Matt practiced to himself in 14 and a half but will need to do another run or two to be sure.

Plan is for Matt to impliment these changes then send out another email when done (or when stuck), to allow others to comment and correct. 

ML gives a reminder to back this up, google docs isn't 100% infallible.

Any other Token News/Issues?
---
https://github.com/TTT-WG/TTT-WG/issues
Skipped due to time

Next Meeting
---
Propose the Tuesday after CHEP - 29th October, at the usual time of 3pm Europe/2pm UK.

-Agreed.
