TTT November 2024
===
26/11/24

**Attending:** Matt, Dimitrios, Luna, Linda, Maarten, Tom B, Mischa, DaveD.
**Apologies:** Marcus, DaveK, DavidC

https://indico.cern.ch/event/1477517/  

## Actions.
- Write up CHEP paper - Matt to kick off overleaf document and share with group (I admit to waiting on the official template to be shared, but will just use the one from last year).

## Future Meeting Logistics.
- Possibility of squeezing in an Ad Hoc call w/c 16th December (e.g. Tuesday 17th).
- Keep 3pm CET on the 4th Tuesday of the month slot going forward?
- Do we want to increase meeting cadance, or aim for a longer (~90 minute) slot?
- First call of 2025 would be Tuesday 28th January

Try to pencil something in for the 17th (this slot might work, MB same day)  

Hopefully no future clash with the OTF if it respects convention.  

Once a month feels enough for now. Most of the time we can extend beyond the hour oif we feel the need.



## Discussions from the Token Sphere.
- GUT WG
- AARC G081 Token Lifetime
- Here

These are good, but we need to not replace our own work. There's a good chance that the WLCG challenges can't be applied.  
For example all WLCG special cases might be removed from the AARC document.  

ML - Will almost certainly have to deviate from G081, but need to document how we mitigate the deviations.  
MS - Not just the WLCG special cases being removed. The basic document should be valid and usable by everyone. So it should use SHOULD, and then we put our use cases on top of. This is the reason to possibly remove the special cases from teh document.   
ML - Agree to preferring to keep the special cases.  
The uniqueness of WLCG problems is something we need to do. And bare in mind that WLCG may be used as an example for other big data communities.  
MS - notes that a lot of sites used by multiple infrastructures. Some difficulties if there's differences in these policies. Better to have overlap.  

ML - This is where the GUT profile can be considered more relevant. No discussion of lifetime yet, but we've been focussing elsewhere. This is a better focus of our time.  

MS- thinking out loud, with shared infrastructure risks are shared that could affect other communities. So need to keep in mind spillover of risks.  

ML - indeed, and some are "weaker" then others.  
Also WLCG has to deal with OSG too.  

MS - discuss a method of just in time token refresh for FTS, perhaps in use by DUNE. Another way of keeping lifetimes shorter.  
DD - Ersatz client, exchange token for another, very limited in what it can do, simply extend lifetime. (see e.g. https://oa4mp.org/server/manuals/ersatz_clients.html)  
Recently demonstrated with use by DUNE FTS.  
ML - Do you feel this is something we can promote?  
DD - Yes  
ML - We should present this wider.  
MS - Comparison of the three methods.  
DC - What is fully different with this mechanism? FTS working on just in time refresh (just before every atomic operation).   
Some concerns on load, and what happens if issuer goes down mid process.  
What is the difference?  
DD- Best to have a meeting with Jeff about this. The Ersatz client does just what it's needed to do.  
MS - Put in the notes above.  
Could ask Jeff to join this call.  

DC - what people want is that the token can only refresh what is provided by the client - particularly for shared FTS instances.

ML - You could argue that FTS are well managed, controlled machines. But some concerns that a "3rd party" has control over a namespace. So something to avoid *if it can be avoided*. 

### Process of (and Policy for) Revocation of Refresh Token. 
Coming out of the last GUT meeting, this was brought up as something for us to look at here.

ML- Some issues around refresh token, including their lifetime. Have something in the profile that "isn't crazy", but isn't fully respected.  
We have matters in this area which aren't fully defined.

Discussion of the revocability of x509.  
- How fast would you need to respond?
- What is a realistic scenario that this could be described? And be a useful process 

MS - Describes process involving a theoretical compromised user  
ML - We should write down this kind of processes  
DD - Describes how a refresh token on its own can't be used to do bad things - need client secrets etc.  
MS - Maybe what we need is, with very large numbers of access token, have a way of suspending a sub. This would be cheaper, but should be reasonably straight forward to roll out.  
"Global Suspension List"  
This is something we could definitely look at, have on our wishlist.  

This is something that can be cached, allowing "offline" use. It is something that can't be publically made available, so will need to be hidden away somewhere.

DC- specifically for rucio, all the tokens have the same subject. So banning a subject would ban the whole DM infrastructure, not a particularly user.  
ML - this is a argument for subclauses with name or something, but requires the client.  
DC - looking at adding the "who" information into the token, but elsewhere.  
MS  - asks about why  
DC - this is because rucio owns everything, so rucio is the subject.  
Describes lightly rucio flow. Rucio intermediate between issuer and user.  

MS - So would need a claim for each individual.  
ML - Calls back to ARGUS and pilots, and we can always "shoot first and ask questions later" and block a VO altogether.  

Definitely something to look at. Look at how others do it.  

Might be something for the plug in framework for HTCondor/ARC CE. A pluggable framework for mapping of token claims to something else. This looks like a good place for that.  
Storage would be a lot harder...  
Keep on our radar.  

### Continuation of Long Lived Token Discussions.
Anything we'd like to add on this topic?
- Long lived transfer tokens
- Long lived job output upload tokens  

Discussed in some detail at the G081 calls.


### Thoughts on the Token Trust "Risk Axes"
The three "axes" of token risk that we've generally considered are Lifetime, Scope and Audience.  
- Accepted that these are a non-exhaustive list, but a good starting framework.

For assessing risk, could/should Scope and Audience be amalgamated into "Token power"?  
The replacement axis label could be *Token Exposure*.  
Or should I stop trying to squeeze risk models into just 3 Dimensions?

ML - These 3 axes are known to everybody. Quantifiable. Other factors are not. So keep as is, but paint a number of concerns on top of the existing axes.  
MD - agreed that flogging the analogy too much  

ML - other risks - maintainability, interoperability. Need to consider these.  
MS - ML, were you involved in a risk assessment of the grid (~10 years ago).  
ML - one of the desired outcomes from this working group.  
MS - we should find the document and get inspiration from that.  
ML - Good homework for us.  
MS (after meeting) - I think it's this one: https://edms.cern.ch/document/1039446/1 see in particular the .xls file

## Other Discussion 
N/A

## AOB
None
## Actions and Next Meeting
Arrange next meeting for 2pm GMT/3pm CET on Tuesday 17th December


Added to the list of running discussion points/thing to keep an eye on:  
- ersatz (and similar) clients https://oa4mp.org/server/manuals/ersatz_clients.html
-- might want 
- reading of subclaims by clients
- "Global Suspension List" like solutions


Homework: Dig out the old WLCG/EGI Risk Analysis (linked my MS) and take a look. https://edms.cern.ch/document/1039446/1
