TTT December 2024
===

Attendees: Linda, Matt, Dave D, Marcus, Dave K, Mischa, Jens


Actions from, new since Last Meeting
---
- CHEP Paper write up created on overleaf (started)  
- Look up the old (EGEE!) Grid Security Risk Assessment: https://edms.cern.ch/document/1039446/1
- GUT and G081 meetings at the start of the month.  
- Add points to the regular discussion list  
-- ersatz (and similar) clients https://oa4mp.org/server/manuals/ersatz_clients.html  
-- reading of subclaims by clients  
-- "Global Suspension List" like solutions  


CHEP Paper
---
Matt will have something to share before the next meeting.

Token Use Cases
---
As discussed in G081 call and Marcus on list.  

Call for us to work on these.  

Jens- look at, for example, accessing a really sensitive thing with a token.  
Need to do the finer grain authorisation with tokens, but need to do it right  
DK - seems the finer grained 

**marcus from chat:**  
Short Summary on the G081 progress;  
Christos and the WLCG people at TechEx agreed that we focus solely on the interoperation across infrastructures.  
These are the key points  (Minutes from Hannah at TechEx:)  
- The doc should include reasonable guidelines and be titled “Recommended Token Lifetimes for Interoperability Use Cases” (or something like that)
- It should say that, following a risk assessment, a closed infrastructure may choose to deviate from the guidelines
- If a proxy receives a token that does not comply with these guidelines it is not required to reject it. It may choose to re-issue tokens with a different lifetime. -> maybe this needs further discussion elsewhere
- Explanation of deviations from the guidelines should not be included in the guidelines themselves (as this may lead people to ignore the guidelines)
- Tom and I will update the doc from Marcus, where there are hopefully reasonable guidelines already

Jens - best practice for higher assurance?

Have we have got into the nitty-gritty of a flow? Interesting stuff when dealing with flows with different levels of assurance in an infrastructure  
For example can't use an IdP with a lower level of assurance then required, so proxy must point to an IdP that gives *enough* of a level of assurance  

What's the language for that? This is Jens area of interest, "putting things on top of other thigns"  

Jens- with SKA keep getting down into rabbit holes. Aim to do several demos with this. Avoiding needing to "undo" stuff done wrong, need a single source of attributes, but countries have different IdPs too.  

DK - today assurance isn't certain anywhere. Assuming identity from CERN for WLCG.  
MH - Assurance is now mandatory for DFN-AAI  
MH - The Proxies pass through the RAF attributes to eduperson_assurance  
MH - We essentially market it so services can see whether it's a social user or a "real" one  

For tokens would this by in another WG::  https://openid.net/wg/ekyc-ida/   

MS - for trust we have our own problems.  
Assurance is linked to the trust marks token world, closer to us then the other working group.  

Jens - is it new?  
MS - No, not that new, ~ 5 years.  
Matt will take a look at that WG.  

MS - worried by these developements.  
Jens- something missing- assurance.  
MS - not seeing any point in a document lifetime for a specific use case  
EOSC and WLCG should be one landscape, saying others are out of scope then you don't end up with a useful document.  
Jens - AARC documents are all about interoperation.  

MS - WLCG isn't one infrastructure. Profile used by others. This exclude others using scitokens. Excludes anyone using anything but web flows. Split between webflow and, say, long running accesses by jobs.  
DK - this wasn't the intent.  
Jens - SKA not AARC complient, but would like to aim to be. At some point might need to attach to EGI/EOSC etc, so easier if we start complying now. Trying to push for that sooner rather then later.  
MS - same reason for a GUT profile.  

Could make multiple documents, but should be created by the same group of experts to avoid silos.  
Another argument for listing usecases. Then can use list and spot specific out of scopes.  

DK - primary driver in WLCG are operation concerns.  
MS - and very fine grain access won't work.  
Might not work, might not be nessicery (in WLCG)  

Some discussion around FTS.  
Open question on how FTS is doing it.  
Atlas: long lived, super specific  
CMS: Token exchange  
Third option using "Ersatz clients" (if I understood correctly)  

Jens: Token exchange does delegation. Jens would like to see this, standards complient doing "on behalf".  
MS - agree, argument is that long running jobs - don't know how long they'd last. At the end will need to access IAM at the end, or refresh.   
Atlas favour long lived, CMS refreshment  

Jens - Can do token exchange for a refresh token. Not tested it, but the standard allows it.  

DD - High availability of the token issuer is strongly required. I don’t think much of the token design should be based on it being down.  

Strong agreement from the floor.   

Jens - SRC hat, phased introduction of features. Hoping to move to a full open id federation at some point. No need to have it now.  




AOB
---
Jens has something he'd like to talk about, has an idea to present at next meeting if he can make it, on exchange tokens between differnt OPs, and would like to get feedback on its madness/genius. (in the scope of climate related research, with multiple tokens from multiple OPs). People in this virtual room would be the right folks to comment on  


Next Meeting, Actions
---
Pencilled in for 14:00/15:00 GMT/CET on 28th of January 2025
- hopefully jens can make it

Note EUGridPMA/AARC meeting at CERN Feb 4-7

MS asks if folks going?

Matt to look at https://openid.net/wg/ekyc-ida/ 
and finish off the CHEP paper.
