# TTT January 2025

Attendees: Matt, Linda, Maarten, Marcus, Dave, Mischa    

Apologies: DaveK, DavidC


## Actions/Since Last Meeting  

- CHEP Paper write up created on overleaf  
- Look up the old (EGEE!) Grid Security Risk Assessment: https://edms.cern.ch/document/1039446/1  
-- Check out https://openid.net/wg/ekyc-ida/
-- ersatz (and similar) clients https://oa4mp.org/server/manuals/ersatz_clients.html  
-- reading of subclaims by clients  
-- "Global Suspension List" like solutions  
- G081 Token Lifetime group evolution

Honestly not much progress on any action.

CHEP Paper focus for the next month. Too early to start steering towards "strongly recommended recipes". More experience needed for that (and it will come over the next few months).
Challenges with jobs, users. Progress being made with production workflows, data transfers.
This year make plan for jobs.

## CHEP Paper

Sadly very little progress.  

But some progress made, Matt will email the list once more bones are on it.



## Other Discussion

### G081 developments

Splitting the document into 2 sections:  
- Online use cases
  - Users present during most flows
  - Typically web access, including delegation

- Offline use cases
  - Users not present during most flows
  - Typically on the commandline
  - E.g. used for automation of workflows

Sounds like a good idea. Marcus working on the document, no hard deadline.

ML- describe ideal cases, and a companion document for workflows that have "caveats" - special use cases that have special mitigations/etc  (longer lifetimes etc). Document there and/or elsewhere. But first settle what is workable and defencible for experiments.

### Leading onto other discussion

MH - mitigations to make risk acceptable.
ML - notes that WLCG IAM won't have 24/7 support, which shapes thinking. Creates an important boundary condition. The intention is to have HA, well behaved services - but without the guarantee of out of hours support.

ML - try to avoid IAM for anything time critical. 
MH - blacklisting as a method of improvement

ML - within scope of this group.
LC - will have a look at risk assessments, interested in doing this.
ML - some work with WLCG risk assessment, but not sure of the scope of it. Not posted to MB. ML may follow up. But question of how public they are.

MS - WLCG risk assessment, but profile  used by non-WLCG groups. Similar with lifetime guidance. Need to be careful not giving generic advice on specific WLCG information. 

ML - WLCG always part of it, but should aim for other communities too. 

MS - WLCG has took the stance of being out of scope from AARC at previous meetings, which isn't great. Many sites are part of multiple communities.
ML - need to add up risks. Need to think outside of the box, after looking at in house use cases. And also should be clear in the documentation we produce that advice might not be suitable for all.
MS - need to make sure experts look at more use cases, as there *is* overlap. 
MH - hope to have experts from both groups in both documents.

MS - need to put in reasoning in the documents - it should be clear.

MS - also a note on ARGUS, in principle ARGUS did a lot more then just this (it became a single source of truth). Follow on from Marcus' thoughts, create a simple, cached, list of banned users.
ML - lists can be short, and scale with large lists of tokens.

ML - compute is the main worry, but something possible. But data might be an issue

MS- definitely want something cached, not a call out.

ML - this is a R&D project that we'd need to "sell" to interested parties. Guarantees to make sure that doesn't slow down etc. 
Abuse of compute is the classic worry.

MS - storage is typically strong on traceability requirements.

ML - blocking everybody might be the right solution, but thankfully doesn't happen very often that the submission structure is compromise.d

ML - tokens reduce attack surface on data management by a large amount. And we can reduce their power to mitigate.

## Next meeting, Actions

No new actions, Matt to continue on CHEP paper.

MS and MH will be at CERN next week. ML busy for a lot of the time, token discussion scheduled for Wednesday morning, consider moving to Wednesday afternoon. Arranging meet up.

Also note indigo iam workshop following Monday.



Next meeting would be Tuesday 25th February 14.00GMT/15.00CET
(continuing 4th Tuesday of the month as the usual time)
