TTT March 2025
===
Attending: Matt, Maarten, DaveD, Dimitrios, DaveK, Marcus, Linda
Apologies:


## Actions, since last meeting
* Feedback from the CHEP reviewer, all minor changes, quoting the feedback: 
-- Remove period from title.
-- The abstract should probably be one paragraph instead of two.
-- Acronyms that may be unfamiliar to the reader should be defined. For example SKA and NFDI, perhaps AAI.
-- The example template document includes only the email address of the corresponding offer, not of everyone as is the case in this paper.
-- References need to be renumbered to be in the order they appear in the paper.
-- In section 2.1, the first sentence of the third paragraph is run-on. Suggest putting a period after "profile" instead of comma.
-- In the last sentence of the same paragraph replace "OAuth2 bearer tokens" with "an Oauth2 bearer token".
-- In section 3.2, second paragraph, the "Although" at the beginning of the last sentence is not proper usage. Suggest dropping it and using perhaps "However" either there or after the comma.
* I will make these corrections this week and resubmit, if the biggest job being renumbering the references I think we can call it a job well done.


## Discussion Points
Conversation seeds, in no particular order.

* "Trustworthy" Issuers
    * Some discussion last time, originating from DUNE tokens and the amazon issued certificate of cilogon.
    * What makes a Issuer Trusted?
        * Expectations on the SLA level
        * Simple things like Host certificate expectations - Google certs aligning with IGTF should make things either
    * Registration/Advertisement of Approved Issuers.
        * GOCDB/Operations Portal/BDII... 
    * AARC AA Ops guide was mentioned, Matt still to get round to reading it: https://aarc-community.org/guidelines/aarc-g048/

* For information Mischa shared with the list: **OWASP ASVS 5.0 (Application Security Verification Standard)** 
-- https://github.com/OWASP/ASVS/blob/master/5.0/en/0x51-V51-OAuth2.md

* recent developments
-- dune tokens and xrootd "base_path"
-- other issues

* ML reminded the risk analysis revamp, this was done for WLCG last year. Task considered done, but end result not seen.
    * Probably don't want to publicise the risk analysis, but should be available internally.
    * Do our part listing token risks.
    * Token leaking etc...
    * Write this up, and decide what of it can be public (maybe 2 versions)
* Discussion of recent WLCG risk assessment.
    * Not widely seen (maybe a CERN internal thing)
    -- DK notes that GridPP re-assess every year.
    -- Good practice
    -- Last security risk assessment was a long time ago.
    ML - catergorisation from last assessment reusable.
    
Work through github issues too https://github.com/TTT-WG/TTT-WG/issues 

DK - notes FIM4R at TIIME next week, where risk assessment needs will be discussed.  
Making concious decision if we decide to accept any risks.  
ML - in recent analysis there's a theme of some risks we have to sign off on.  

ML will check about this risk assessment.  
But will need to do something WLCG wide.  
DK - and this should be at least exposed to the MB.  

Linda's report: https://edms.cern.ch/ui/file/1039446/1/EGEE-III-SCG-TEC-1039446-SecurityRisk-v0_9.pdf  
But ML notes this is a summary for a giant spreadsheet, we need that original (found in document folder)  
Will look for the WLCG equivilent that Romain created.  
DK dug out the report: http://cern.ch/rwartel/security_teg/  WLCG%20Risk%20Assessment.pdf


DK - finding risks is easier then doing anything about it.

Risk assessment of IAM software was mentioned in a recent meeting. Could split this into levels. Worth asking BM about this.  
Could split "costs" with other user groups.  

ML notes being able to look more at this from mid-May onwards (post-WLCG workshop).  
version 2.0 of the profile is coming this year.  

## Turning discussion points into "products"
* We have very good, lively and interesting conversations, how to start converting these to advice, documentation... ?
--best practices, policy, inputs. But moving target/chicken and egg situation. Still finding our way.

--set of documents
"output doc" 1


* Try and get a wider audience.
    * invite Jens to a future meeting.
* With the evolution/maturing of the WLCG AuthZ group, do we have new bases to cover?



## AOB, Next Meeting

-- Next regular slot would be Tuesday 22nd April, but this is right after the Easter weekend. Would the 29th be a better alternative?

Decided on next meeting on the 29th.
