Token Trust and Traceability - 21/2/24
===
**Attending:** Matt, Dave K, David C, Linda, Tom, Maarten
**Apologies:** Jens

**Actions:** None

Slides for conversation:

David - we should be outcome focussed. Where are the layers we can apply controls to.
What concrete things do we want to start doing with this group?

ML -AuthZ Profile out of date from 2019, written with zero production experience.
With more experience under belts know what needs to be reconsidered.
Traceability is indeed orthogonal, but lifetimes will be a discussion point. Might not have a significant change ready for this Spring.\
-people will have to know where to "ignore" on the schema.\
Bunch of pull requests and issues being committed into master, but plans delayed.\
Decision will be made in the next few weeks if a new profile to be "cut", roll in the fixes and decide what version number it will be - maybe 2.0\
Problem is some codes require version 1.0, or will refuse token (dCache, maybe others). \
Less room now things are in production.\

Discussion on not being Token Experts - fine for the context of this group!\
-It will serve us to ask the "obvious questions"\
-Xroot test was deemed a useful exercise.\
-recommendations for log levels.\
-documentation for "real sites", the things that matter. Look for gaps. Good for traceability - and maybe for "blocking"

Talk on exposure - developers, admin education. People be careful - logs could be more dangerous if sent around carelessly.\
Perhaps a statement in the profile?\
People like us will need to be vigilant.

We will see a class of these kind of vulnerabilities.

-Guidelines for developers.

Maarten was satisfied with the token experience in DC24. Improvements being made in handling database - Access Tokens no longer to be stored in the DB. Too many refresh tokens for LHCb - more than 1 million tokens in the DB, for transfers not cleaned up yet due to much too long lifetimes.\
Very useful experience, provided "real" numbers. Will be used to decide on future improvements.

Risk Analysis of impacts of certain tokens. 

Deadline from the EOL of Voms-admin. From ~June fully relient on IAM. Some improvements required in support of servers, looking at HA solutions.

DC24 postmortem will take months.

There is an rpm available with token introspection tools, and Maarten has a bash script.

-Where to publish information

dteam IAM server discussed. Used by FTS team. KIT admins connected MyToken service to dteam IAM. Presented in next Ops Coord meeting.\
-scopes still need to be requested (due to reasons), but hopefully will be changed soon.

(MyToken was co-created by Marcus, from the TIIME meet up).\
ML also notes the OSG solution, based on Vault.\
This could help with securing things - hiding the "complex stuff" and making things more secure by codifying how tokens are handled.

A regular meeting slot to be decided, a nominal doodle poll will be the best way forward.\
-we currently have no U.S. contributors, so an earlier in the day meeting is opened up.

-We should also look forward to the future broader meetings. 

Tuesdays (avoiding 1st of a month) or Fridays seem best.\
Aim for 3rd week in March (~19th).

Actions (all on Matt):\
-Forward Doodle poll for next meeting, highlighting that this is the "regular" slot.\
-Try to recruit others
-Prepare some proto-documentation for next meeting.
